We live in a time that will end in final judgment by means of God's kingdom.
Jesus described this time when He gave His disciples a prophetic sign regarding His invisible presence
at the conclusion of the system of things.
Since His prophecy applies to our day, we should be very interested in its details.
It also points to a bright future for those who heed its warnings.
We find the prophecy in Matthew chapter 24 and 25, Mark chapter 13 and Luke chapter 21.
After revealing many of the things that would occur,
Jesus provided warnings for His disciples by means of three parables.
First, He gave the parable of the virgins.
Then, the parable of the talents, and finally, the parable of the sheep and the goats.
The parable will show how a person's behavior will affect his or her final judgment.
The two parables apply to those, the first two, to those with a heavenly hope,
and the third parable applies to those with an earthly hope.
Yet, no matter what our hope may be, all of us can learn from the warnings found in Jesus parables.
Let's start with the third parable.
In the parable of the sheep and goats,
Jesus described the final judgment for sheep-like ones and goat-like ones during the Great Tribulation.
As Jehovah's appointed Judging King,
Jesus will be completely righteous in the judgment that He gives.
As a thorough judge,
He is already observing the actions, attitudes, and speech of all people,
including how they treat His anointed brothers.
By the start of the Great Tribulation,
Jesus will have identified those who are sheep-like or goat-like in their conduct and attitude.
From that time onward, those who are goat-like will not seek to change.
However, those who are sheep-like and who have the hope of living forever on earth
will need to remain faithful in order for Jehovah to keep their names in the book of life.
Then, just before Armageddon,
God's Son will pass final judgment on all those then living here on earth.
Persons who are judged to be righteous will enter into everlasting life on earth
with a marvelous reward for those who keep their integrity.
Although Jesus' third parable applies to those who hope to live on the earth,
anointed ones too must listen to the warning message found in that parable.
How so?
Because Jesus is observing their actions, attitudes, and speech as well,
they too must prove to be righteous and faithful.
Still, a few questions remain.
For example, how are anointed Christians undergoing a period of judgment today?
And what warnings did Jesus provide for them?
We find the answers to both questions in the first two parables of Matthew chapter 25.
To prepare us for this review,
let's briefly consider how anointed Christians are chosen.
We'll start by looking at a lesson from ancient times.
When the priesthood was established in ancient Israel,
Jehovah decided who would serve as high priest,
as well as the underpriests at the tabernacle.
Exodus 281 tells us that he selected Aaron along with his sons.
No one could rightly question Jehovah's choice
and those chosen had to prove worthy of their calling.
Similar to what he did back then,
Jehovah chooses those who will serve as priest in heaven.
He began by selecting Jesus to serve as high priest.
Although Jesus was a perfect man,
he did not choose that role for himself.
We read at Hebrews 5 and verse 5,
that the Christ did not glorify himself by becoming a high priest.
Likewise, those who will serve as priest in heaven
do not choose themselves for this assignment.
They are selected by Jehovah and anointed with his Holy Spirit.
He knows each one whom he has anointed for this service.
How do faithful anointed ones view their heavenly calling?
When a person is anointed by God,
he or she knows without doubt that it is from Jehovah
and that one accepts Jehovah's choice with gratitude.
Instead of feeling proud or haughty,
anointed ones strive to imitate Jesus' example of humility.
They are helped to do so by keeping in mind
the lessons and warnings that are found in Jesus' parables for them.
It is not worthy that just before relating his parables,
Jesus spoke about a faithful and discreet slave
who would distribute spiritual food at the proper time
during the last days.
That slave pictures a small group of anointed Christian men
today, the governing body.
For their faithful service,
Jesus said that there would be a reward,
but he also provided a warning.
He spoke about what would happen
if that slave ever lost sight of Jesus' future return
and started to mistreat his fellow slaves.
If that were to happen,
that slave would be viewed as evil
and would as Matthew 2451 states
be punished with the greatest severity.
Please note that Jesus was not prophesying
that there would be an evil slave.
This is a warning, not a prophecy.
What was the warning that the faithful slave
needs to remain watchful?
Yet it is not just the faithful and discreet slave
who must remain watchful.
By means of his parables,
Jesus warned that all anointed ones
must likewise prove to be discreet,
faithful, and watchful.
Now, how did Jesus make his point?
In the parable of the virgins,
Jesus spoke of ten virgins
who went out to meet a bridegroom.
They hoped to accompany the bridegroom
into his marriage feast.
Jesus described five of the virgins as discreet
and five as foolish.
The Greek word used for discreet
conveys the idea of understanding,
forethought, discernment,
and wisdom in a practical sense.
So, the discreet virgins were wise
and they showed this by being ready
when the bridegroom arrived in the middle of the night.
They had lamps to light their way
and Matthew 25 verse 4 adds
that the discreet virgins took oil
in their flasks along with their lamps.
So, they had the means to keep their lamps burning.
Because they proved to be ready,
they could follow the bridegroom
into his marriage feast.
This action depicts genuine anointed ones
entering into their heavenly reward.
They will be judged as worthy
to join the bridegroom Jesus in his heavenly kingdom.
But what about the foolish virgins?
Well, unlike the discreet virgins,
the foolish ones were not ready
when the bridegroom arrived.
Their lamps died out.
As a result,
they could not follow the bridegroom
and enter into his marriage feast.
When they later tried to do so,
they heard the bridegroom tell them,
I do not know you.
What is the lesson and warning
that Jesus was illustrating?
He was showing that only anointed Christians
who keep on the watch and prove to be ready
will follow him into the reward.
Notice though,
that Jesus did not say
that there would be a large number of foolish ones
who would be unprepared
when he comes in this way
at the great tribulation.
Here too,
this is a warning,
not a prophecy.
We're not focused on five of them being discreet
and five of them being foolish.
Jesus was simply letting anointed ones know
what would happen
if they failed to keep on the watch.
That is a sobering thought.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians should listen
to the warning found in the parable of the virgins.
We must keep on the watch
and always be ready
to carry out our service to God.
Now after using the parable of the virgins
to emphasize the need to be discreet,
Jesus related a parable
that highlights the need to be faithful.
It is the parable of the talents or money.
In this parable,
Jesus tells about two slaves
who were faithful to their master
and one slave who was not.
How did the two slaves prove to be faithful?
Well, the faithful slaves worked hard
to increase the money
that their master entrusted to their care
just before he traveled abroad.
When he returned,
the faithful slaves had more to give back
than what they had received
and they were blessed for doing so.
But what about the third slave, the sluggish one?
What did he do with what he had received?
While the sluggish slave buried what he had been given
and failed to increase his master's talents,
when the master returned,
that slave had nothing additional to give to his master.
He even tried to blame the master
calling him a demanding man.
As a result,
that slave did not receive greater blessings.
More than that,
what he had been given was taken away from him
and he was cast out of the master's household.
What did the master's response mean
for each of his slaves
and whom do they picture today?
The two faithful slaves
depict anointed Christians
who prove to be valued members of the master's household.
The master, Jesus,
invites them to enter into the joy of their master.
That joy pictures their heavenly reward.
On the other hand,
the bad example of the sluggish slave
provides a warning for anointed ones.
How so?
If anointed ones do not remain alert and watchful,
they could become self-satisfied with what they have received.
They might not extend themselves in kingdom service.
They could lose sight of their responsibilities
and fail to do a second Peter 1 verse 10 urges
where they are told to make the calling
and choosing sure for themselves.
If any of them become like the sluggish slave,
they would not be approved to enter into the heavenly kingdom
and share in the joy of the master.
Once again,
Jesus was providing a warning,
not a prophecy.
Clearly, all anointed Christians
must strive to be both discreet and faithful.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians are determined
to remain faithful to Jehovah.
We are secure in our relationship with him.
We're not concerned if Jehovah chooses
to anoint some faithful ones in more recent years.
We recall what Jesus said regarding the 11th hour workers
in his illustration about the vineyard.
You can read about it in Matthew chapter 20.
Those who were invited to work in the vineyard later in the day
received the same reward from the master of the vineyard
as those who were invited to work in it earlier in the day.
Likewise, Jehovah and his son know
how many anointed ones to call
in order to complete the number of 144,000
before the end comes.
But no matter when they are selected,
each anointed one who is judged to be faithful
will receive the heavenly reward.
Now with that in mind,
let's consider Matthew chapter 24
and verses 40 and 41.
And as we do, we'll see how these verses
connect to Jesus' parables for the anointed.
Matthew 24 verse 40, it reads.
Then two men will be in the field.
One will be taken along and the other abandoned.
Two women will be grinding at the hand mill.
Did you notice some similarities to the parables?
Jesus spoke of two men working in a field
and of two women working at a hand mill.
Outwardly, they appear to be the same.
But in each case, Jesus said that one would be taken along
and the other abandoned.
He then urged his followers to keep on the watch therefore
because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
Jesus said something very similar
after relating the parable of the virgins.
In both examples, he provided a warning.
Since the parable of the virgins
applies to anointed Christians,
do Jesus' comments about those
who are taken along also apply to the anointed?
It appears that they do.
And here again, Jesus was providing a warning.
In his great prophecy regarding the conclusion
of the system of things,
we find that Jesus lovingly highlights
both the good news of the kingdom
as well as warning messages for all people,
including his followers.
Down to this day, our message follows the same pattern.
It is both one of salvation, as well as one of warning.
And we must continue to do all that we can
to deliver Jesus' twofold message
and help others to act on it while there is still time.
Clearly, Jehovah and his son want us to remain discreet,
faithful and on the watch.
So what have we considered?
Some of the virgins in Jesus' illustration
found out that the door was shut
and they heard the bridegroom tell them,
I do not know you.
One of the slaves in Jesus' illustration of the talents
did not enter into his master's joy
but was thrown outside into the darkness.
Jesus also indicated that not all would be taken along
into the heavenly reward.
What a serious warning for those who have the heavenly hope.
Even so, we are confident that the full number of them
will be filled.
Truly, this is a time of judgment
for all of God's people,
including the righteous sheep
who yearn to live forever on earth.
But there is no reason for any of us to fear
the final judgment that is yet ahead.
Our loving Heavenly Father promises to give us power
beyond what is normal
so that we may, as Luke 21 verse 36 says,
succeed in standing before the Son of Man.
So then, whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
we must heed the warnings found in Jesus' parables
and thereby keep our names written in the book of life.